---
title: Vanilla PHP
layout: post
author: Barco van Rhijn
category: PHP
---
A Senior PHP developer approached me about collaborating on a Vanilla PHP project. His requirement was for us to work according to his php standard. 

We started building template engine that could be easily filled out with details to generate brand sites. 

I asked to do the front-end generating code. I was inspired by how Atomic Design systems worked and decided to build out a template engine with some overlapping features with Twigg. Since the requirements was that there be no dependancies I could not use Twigg or Handlebars or other such systems. 
The project consisted of two parts. A UI that was customer facing and centrally manages all the site information and links. And the Template builder which connects to the API and parses the Json into arrays and then outputs this in a template. The API defines several settings that makes the Customer facing builder allow simple UI configurations.

I discovered that some of what I wanted to do to make the templating more flexible is known as Meta programming. I discussed ways we could free the data model by moving to Json in Mysql or Mongodb. Because after the first few days it became apparent that each new change.

In the process of doing the work I decided to learn how to build unit tests in PHP. I've just touched on the basics of doing this in Javascript after what I'd learned in FreeCodeCamp. But I'd not used this in PHP yet. In the past I'd mostly customized PHP code or written plugins which did not have enough code to make Unit tests a viable option. 
When I asked the developer I worked with it turned out that he had not used PHPUnit before so I was on my own with this. 



taking on a Vanilla PHP project for a client. In 3 Weeks I coded up my first php from scratch project in Vanilla PHP and produced a minimum viable product as part of an attempt to partner up with senior PHP developer. The 3 weeks was valuable experience but the partnership was not well matched. When comparing notes I was producing 6months of output in 3weeks compared to the other dev's output. I had started with a blank canvas and PHP documentation and 5min worth of Sage advice.